- [Instructor] Let's explore the design
of the collection interface
and take a glance at its methods.
Since the collection interface
is at the root of the interface hierarchy,
that means the methods on it
appear on every type that extends from it.
So interfaces and concrete implementations
of a list, set, and queue will inherit these common methods
from the collection interface.
Some collection methods are denoted as being optional,
so they might appear on an implementation,
but it's possible that a call to one of these methods
will throw an unsupported operation exception.
The interfaces in the collections framework
and the collection interface itself are generic.
So when we create a collection,
we use a generic type argument
to indicate the type of elements that it holds.
The argument is declared
by placing the type in angle brackets.
Since the collection implementations
are based on these interfaces,
they use a generic type argument too.
When instantiating the implementation,
we can be more concise
by using the diamond operator on the constructor.
This operator infers the generic type
from the declared variable's generic type.
This generic type impacts how we use collection methods
because it determines what arguments may be passed into them
or what type of object they might return.
These are the 21 methods found on the collection interface
as of Java 11.
I've placed them into several groups
and added asterisks next to the optional methods.
These groups organize the collection methods
by their general behaviors.
Some add or remove elements,
others iterate or inspect the collection,
and one is kind of a catch-all
with comparison and array operations.
You'll notice that methods on the collection interface
make frequent use of generics
and that's common throughout the entire framework.
So now we have a grasp of the collection interface
and the groups of behaviors that it provides.
In the next lesson,
we'll dive deeper into a few of the most common methods
that you'll use.